# MORP4: A Dynamic Network Telescope

A network telescope passively monitors traffic reaching Internet address space that is not assigned to any hosts but is advertised to the global routing system. This traffic is by definition unsolicited. For more than two decades, network telescopes have enabled research breakthroughs by allowing global visibility into a wide range of Internet phenomena. However, network telescopes are afflicted by two main issues: progressive erosion, due to the increasing scarcity and commercial value of address space, and blacklisting.

To overcome these issues, we propose MORP4, a programmable data plane framework implementing a “dynamic” network telescope. MORP4 accurately and adaptively tracks unused space of an organization’s network with configurable time and space granularity and captures only traffic directed towards unused addresses at line rate. MORP4 enables an organization not only to “recover” unused space for capturing unsolicited traffic but it also provides greater utility than a static telescope by countering blacklisting and monitoring addresses adjacent to used ones. We provide an implementation of MORP4 in P4 and Python, and deploy it on an actual Tofino switch. We show that it can detect unused (IPv4) address space at the finest granularity (/32) while operating at line rate and leaving enough resources for other applications running on the switch, as well as providing an effective approach for operating a telescope in the IPv6 domain.


